[IMP] Studio: update automation rules doc for v17 (#8062)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/studio/automated_actions.rst

--------

Trigger automated actions based on an external event using a webhook. A webhook is a method of
communication between two systems where the source system sends an HTTP(S) request to a destination
system based on a specific event. It usually includes a data payload containing information about
the event that occurred.

To configure the :guilabel:`Webhook` trigger, enter the :guilabel:`URL` of the source system
(i.e., the system sending the request), then enter the code to run to determine the record on which
the automation rule should be executed in the :guilabel:`Target Record` field.

.. note::
   The code defined by default in the :guilabel:`Target Record` field works for webhooks coming from
   another Odoo database.

You can also choose to :guilabel:`Log Calls` to record the payloads received, e.g., to make sure the
data sent by the source system matches the expected format and content. This also helps identify
and diagnose any issues that may arise. To access the logs, click the :guilabel:`Logs` smart
button at the top of the :guilabel:`Automation rules` form.

.. note::
   If you wish to use the webhook's content for a purpose other than to find the record, you can

>    only do so using an :ref:`studio/automated-actions/action/python-code` action.

Reviewer: You can add this here: 
> The webhook content is available in the server action context as a `payload` variable (a dictionary that contains the GET parameters or POST JSON body of the incoming request).

.. _studio/automated-actions/action:

Actions
=======

Once you have defined the automation rule's :ref:`trigger <studio/automated-actions/trigger>`, click
:guilabel:`Add an action` to define the action to be executed.

.. tip::

>    You can define multiple actions for the same trigger/automation rule.

Reviewer: they are run in order (e.g. if you have an action to update a record then send an email, the email will use the updates values; if you set the email action before the update action, the email will use the values before the update action is run)

   .. image:: automated_actions/create-activity-action.png
      :alt: Example of a Create Activity action

Send Email and Send SMS
-----------------------

These actions are used to send an email or a text message to a contact linked to a specific record.
To do so, select or create an :guilabel:`Email Template` or an an :guilabel:`SMS Template`, then, in
the :guilabel:`Send Email As` or :guilabel:`Send SMS As` field, choose how you want to send the
email or text message.

.. _studio/automated-actions/action/add-followers:

Add Followers and Remove Followers
----------------------------------

Use these actions to (un)subscribe existing contacts to the record.

Create Record
-------------

This action is used to create a new record on any model.

.. note::
   Selecting a :guilabel:`Record to Create` is only required if you want to target a model other
   than the one you are on.

Specify a :guilabel:`Name` for the record, then, optionally, select a field in the
:guilabel:`Link Field` field to link the record that triggered the creation of the new record.

.. tip::
   You can create another automation rule with :ref:`studio/automated-actions/action/update-record`

>    actions to update the fields of the new record if necessary. For example, you can use a

Reviewer: great that you mention that!

trigger, then select a value if required.

.. image:: automated_actions/values-updated-trigger.png
   :alt: Example of a Values Updated trigger

.. _studio/automated-actions/trigger/email-events:

Email Events
------------

Trigger automated actions upon receiving or sending emails.

.. _studio/automated-actions/trigger/values-timing-conditions:

Timing Conditions
-----------------

Trigger automated actions based on a date field. The following triggers are available:

- :guilabel:`Based on date field`: Select the field to be used next to the :guilabel:`Delay` field.
- :guilabel:`After creation`: The action is triggered when a record is created and saved.
- :guilabel:`After last update`: The action is triggered when an existing record is edited and
  saved.

You can then define:

- a :guilabel:`Delay`: Specify the number of minutes, hours, days, or months. To trigger the action
  before the trigger date, specify a negative number. If you selected the :guilabel:`Based on date
  field` trigger, you must also select the field to be used to determine the delay.
- :guilabel:`Extra Conditions`: Click :guilabel:`Add condition`, then specify the conditions to be

>   met to trigger the automation rule. Click :guilabel:`New Rule` to add another condition.

Author: It is similar, but different (see the tip on Before Update Domain from line 53). And only triggers in the categories "Timing conditions" or "Custom" offer the possibility to add conditions. I will investigate why!

.. example::
   After a lead is turned into an opportunity, you want the automated action to set up a call for
   the user responsible for the lead. To do so, set the :guilabel:`Activity Type` to
   :guilabel:`Call` and the :guilabel:`User Type` to :guilabel:`Dynamic User (based on record)`.

   .. image:: automated_actions/create-activity-action.png
      :alt: Example of a Create Activity action

Send Email and Send SMS
-----------------------

These actions are used to send an email or a text message to a contact linked to a specific record.
To do so, select or create an :guilabel:`Email Template` or an an :guilabel:`SMS Template`, then, in
the :guilabel:`Send Email As` or :guilabel:`Send SMS As` field, choose how you want to send the
email or text message.

.. _studio/automated-actions/action/add-followers:

Add Followers and Remove Followers
----------------------------------

Use these actions to (un)subscribe existing contacts to the record.

Create Record
-------------

This action is used to create a new record on any model.

.. note::
   Selecting a :guilabel:`Record to Create` is only required if you want to target a model other

>    than the one you are on.

Author: I rephrased this a little bit to include your sugegstion and also remove the note (with the new note i added (see your next comment), the text was really sandwiched bewteen 2 notes (and a tip) which looks stupid soooo x)

Specify a :guilabel:`Name` for the record, then, optionally, select a field in the
:guilabel:`Link Field` field to link the record that triggered the creation of the new record.

.. tip::
   You can create another automation rule with :ref:`studio/automated-actions/action/update-record`
   actions to update the fields of the new record if necessary. For example, you can use a
   :guilabel:`Create Record` action to create a new project task and then assign it to a specific
   user using an :guilabel:`Update Record` action.

.. _studio/automated-actions/action/python-code:

Execute Code
------------

This action is used to execute Python code. The available variables are described in the

> :guilabel:`Python Code` tab, which is also used to write your code, or in the :guilabel:`Help` tab.

Reviewer 2: Maybe something like:
```suggestion
This action is used to execute Python code. You can write your code into the :guilabel:`Python Code` tab and using these variables:
- env: environment on which the action is triggered
- model: model of the record on which the action is triggered; is a void recordset
- record: record on which the action is triggered; may be void
- records: recordset of all records on which the action is triggered in multi-mode; may be void
- time, datetime, dateutil, timezone: useful Python libraries
- float_compare: utility function to compare floats based on specific precision
- log: log(message, level='info'): logging function to record debug information in ir.logging table
- _logger: _logger.info(message): logger to emit messages in server logs
- UserError: exception class for raising user-facing warning messages
- Command: x2many commands namespace
- To return an action, assign: action = {...}

As a reminder, you can find them as well in the :guilabel:`Python Code` tab or in the :guilabel:`Help` tab.
```

Send Webhook Notification
-------------------------

> This action allows to send a POST request with the values of the :guilabel:`Fields` to the URL

Reviewer 2: stupid question, but what's a POST request? Is it an abbreviation for something? If so, what for? I'd also suggest :abbr:

Reviewer: my 2 cents:
> Do you think i need to add some sort of explanation

no

> if you're venturing into webhooks, you should know what you're doing

i agree 💯

- :guilabel:`After creation`: The action is triggered when a record is created and saved.
- :guilabel:`After last update`: The action is triggered when an existing record is edited and
  saved.

You can then define:

- a :guilabel:`Delay`: Specify the number of minutes, hours, days, or months. To trigger the action
  before the trigger date, specify a negative number. If you selected the :guilabel:`Based on date
  field` trigger, you must also select the date field to be used to determine the delay.
- :guilabel:`Extra Conditions`: Click :guilabel:`Add condition`, then specify the conditions to be
  met to trigger the automation rule. Click :guilabel:`New Rule` to add another condition.

The action is triggered when the delay is reached and the conditions are met.

.. example::
   If you want to send a reminder email 30 minutes before the start of a calendar event, select the
   :guilabel:`Start (Calendar Event)` under :guilabel:`Trigger Date` and set the :guilabel:`Delay`
   to **-30** :guilabel:`Minutes`.

   .. image:: automated_actions/timing-conditions-trigger.png
      :alt: Example of a Based on date field trigger

.. note::

>    By default, the scheduler checks for trigger dates every 4 hours, which means that lower

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   By default, the scheduler checks for trigger dates every 4 hours, meaning lower
```
